## walestyl

2021-06-13

Dan and TAK, thank you for sharing your perspectives

This is Tyler, I was one of the original co-proposers on the F3 proposal and led the marketing holon. I joined Rich early on in the process and set aside a proposal of my own to help with his Comprehensive NFT Framework. Even though it may seem like a mess at the moment, there are a handful of positives which emerged. I believe there is a path forward, and do not consider NFT-DAO a failure.

Background

NFT-DAO is positioned as a collaboration project with the mission of completing a comprehensive NFT framework. In the NFT-DAO genesis document it states that building ‘BOXCAR’ was the primary purpose of the collaboration and through the process of building ‘BOXCAR,’ a holonic DAO structure would emerge. We set up a discord server, put up a website, and people started showing up. Then a lot of people started showing up. Some people wanted to mint NFTs, some wanted to work on governance, some folks wanted to code. Many people seemed eager and willing to contribute in good faith, including myself. It was messy and making collaborative decisions was hard without a governance model. Decisions ended up becoming semi-centralized with input from the community input taken into consideration through polls and questionnaires on Typeform and airtable. This was not ideal, but did result in “The Comprehensive NFT Framework Collab” being branded as NFT-DAO.

Reason for leaving

I stepped down from NFT-DAO a couple weeks ago because I no longer felt comfortable marketing the Akkadia marketplace ticket launch without a transparent contribution model in place. After the fallout with the development team that TAK mentions above and Rich explains here 7, it seemed irresponsible to move forward with marketing until we had written agreements outlining how revenue generated would be managed and distributed to all contributors that helped to build and launch Akkadia. I was also becoming increasingly uncomfortable with the idea of winning future rounds in Catalyst with a governance and contribution model being secondary to revenue generating products.

I agree with DanMercurius’ description of the key problems around communication and structure. He, Stephen, Troy and the rest of the Governance holon were making progress with tooling around a governance model and a contribution token, but it did seem to take a backseat to the ticket auction. Although progress slowed, the governance holon did continue to work after Dan and Stephen’s departure after Occamfi entered the picture.

OccamFi

Without having a structured collaborative decision model in place, the core team decided to move forward in filling out the typeform for the Occamfi hackathon after Rich brought it up in one of the core meetings. The only decision made from my perspective was to fill out the typeform. Not participate, just fill out the typeform so that we would have the option of participating if we decided that was something we wanted to do. Regardless, the focus on tickets coupled with a lack of transparency, miscommunication, and the entrance of another variable (Occam) accelerated fallout and division amongst the community.

The NFT-DAO community’s response to the possibility of participating in a hackathon that may have led to the opportunity to be accepted in an IDO accelerator program made it clear in my mind that a transparent governance and a contribution model needed to become a priority. At the same time there was pressure to get an NFT product to market quickly, so I continued with marketing and design work relating to the Akkadia ticket launch, until two weeks ago when I decided I wasn’t comfortable and left due to the reasons previously listed.

Current project

As Dan mentioned in his post, I’m currently working with him and Stephen on Secret Decks. Although there is risk in getting to market a bit later, we believe that creating a solid governance and contribution model is necessary before applying for Catalyst funds or launching products.

Closing statement and recommendations

Despite the rough waters, I found great value in working with NFT-DAO. I believe that everyone I collaborated with believes they are acting in the best interest of both NFT-DAO and the Catalyst community, but also have learned that without a deliberate adherence to transparency, governance, and contribution metrics, paranoia can creep in and seed distrust amongst the community. When funding/revenue is introduced distrust is magnified.

I believe that NFT-DAO deserves the funding awarded to them in Catalyst Fund3. It is my recommendation that NFT-DAO distributes those funds to the contributors that helped them realize the deliverables as presented here, NFT-DAO Catalyst Townhall Presentation 1. That is, as long as those contributors are willing to accept payment.

There is value in the process. What I mean by this is that even though MuKn has recommended rebuilding Akkadia from scratch, that doesn’t negate the time and effort that a group of professional developers exerted in organically forming a self-organizing development team with the task of building Akkadia.

I’m confident that the NFT-DAO community will apply the learnings acquired through the recent setbacks to build the foundation that will lead to sustainable community and product growth. I look forward to following along.
