# kopcho

2021-06-16

I’m traveling in Europe on business since last weekend and writing an NFT-DAO update report that covers the issues raised. 
In the meanwhile I prepared this summary slide.

It appears it was not clear and communicated that compensation was being thought through.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JIp6UEWxVhfXx_-oN9A10Hs-PEpUlGLP/view

## NFT-DAO EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
June 16, 2021

NFT-DAO is committed to creating the Comprehensive NFT Framework

## NFT-DAO 7 MEMBERS LEFT
In May we identified (16) core members to be rewarded.  

The day before announcing them, (2) left over Occam discussions.  

Then (3) developers and (2) marketing exited. 

## NFT-DAO 5 MEMBER ENTERED

In June (5) new contributors joined.

The (4) remaining developers are also joined by MuKn developers.

# COMMUNICATION FAILURES

Communication issues occurred between teams causing many misunderstandings.

Departing individuals took to public platforms to damage the reputation of the NFT DAO and those committed to its success—where agreements could not be met on performance and compensation.

# COMPENSATION MODEL

A Contribution token was proposed by Rich in March (before funding) to reward and track participation.

It was started, lots of discussions occurred, some iterations, but it never could get consensus on fair measures.

## PAY CORE CONTRIBUTORS 80,000 ADA (RICH’S PROPOSAL)
From: NFT-DAO Core team Discord channel (Members: Troy, Tyler, Michael, Rich)
 
RK — 05/27/2021

Hey team.  We identified 16 core contributors the day before the decisions to leave the group.   We aim to reward contributions made, but don't have a model to measure everyone's contributions.  A team wins or loses together. Some are MVPs, some simply add bench depth.
 
I propose we do the Ticket Sale asap and disperse 16% of the proceeds to each +1 we IDed, 1% each.  If we make $500K that is $80K÷16=$5K each.  This should be incentive enough for each team member to help get through the sale.

Something like this needs to happen.
 
Troy — 05/27/2021

Sounds good Rich. I'll raise this proposal in the gov meeting.
 

A Comprehensive Report is Forthcoming

