## kopcho

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1feWVHE5MVZtMyq0ACX7q7HXpuEHzKyLN/view

NFT-DAO Catalyst Fund-3 Update 2Q21

## Comprehensive NFT Framework Collab 
https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/Comprehensive-NFT-Framework-Collab/334521-48088
Proposed by: Rich Kopcho, Finley McIIwaine, Tyler Wailes, Troy Egan

Report compiled by: NFT-DAO

Date: June 17, 2021


## Proposal Vision Statement

NFT-DAO envisions an open-source composable NFT framework for all—instead of multiple point solutions only benefiting some.

NFT-DAO envisions a comprehensive NFT strategy and open-source framework that enables all users (technical and non-technical) to easily deploy industry specific tokenized asset marketplaces.

We seek an organized community effort to fully define comprehensive requirements for the penultimate NFT platform of any blockchain and build it as a Cardano asset anyone can use to build their specialized marketplaces or NFT solutions upon. We can build better together.

## Project Funding

$48,965 Total

In the spirit of Catalyst experiments, we seek to deliver the intention of this funded proposal.

## NFT-DAO EXECUTIVE SUMMARY (June 16, 2021)

NFT-DAO is committed to creating the Comprehensive NFT Framework

## NFT-DAO 7 MEMBERS LEFT

In May we identified (16) core members to be rewarded.  

The day before announcing them, (2) left over Occam discussions.  

Then (3) developers and (2) marketing exited. 

## NFT-DAO 5 MEMBER ENTERED

In June (5) new contributors joined.
The (4) remaining developers are also joined by MuKn developers.

## COMMUNICATION FAILURES

Communication issues occurred between teams causing many misunderstandings.

Departing individuals took to public platforms to damage the reputation of the NFT DAO and those committed to its success—where agreements could not be met on performance and compensation.

## COMPENSATION MODEL

A Contribution token was proposed by Rich in March (before funding) to reward and track participation.

It was started, lots of discussions occurred, some iterations, but it never could get consensus on fair measures.


## PAY CORE CONTRIBUTORS 80,000 ADA (RICH’S PROPOSAL)
From: NFT-DAO Core team Discord channel (Members: Troy, Tyler, Michael, Rich)

# RK — 05/27/2021
Hey team.  We identified 16 core contributors the day before the decisions to leave the group.   We aim to reward contributions made, but don't have a model to measure everyone's contributions.  A team wins or loses together. Some are MVPs, some simply add bench depth.

I propose we do the Ticket Sale asap and disperse 16% of the proceeds to each +1 we IDed, 1% each.  If we make $500K that is $80K÷16=$5K each.  This should be incentive enough for each team member to help get through the sale.

Something like this needs to happen.

Troy — 05/27/2021
Sounds good Rich. I'll raise this proposal in the gov meeting.

## ORGANIZATIONAL MATTERS

NFT-DAO milestones are based on the successful completion of our MVP. While NFT-DAO consisted of 3 active members at launch and grew to 16 core contributors, some people have left as the scope of NFT-DAO evolved over discussions on early stage implementations and the deliverables were being finalized. Based on the successful completion of milestones is when funds would be distributed to the people involved in the process. A rebooting has occurred and a new Core Cohort is active.

For governance and oversight, payments are voted and determined by the NFT-DAO Core Cohort where Rich is a non-voting member. However Rich does help provide agenda items and initial options for consideration. 

During the first NFT-DAO Core Cohort meeting June 1, 2021, it was decided that Rich would lead business development and that the Ticket Sale app source code would have a third party review in order to determine it is “built, done, and delivered.” The main reason for this is that there was a lack of oversight as to what the developers were building including the libraries. This decision was made with the Developer Lead. (5 - Yes, 0 - no, 1 - abstained). 

Upon review of the source code by MuKn, it was determined that the source code needed to be re-written. Previous discussions were held with the original developers to compensate them for their time, however no agreement was reached due to differences in opinion on the value of work contributed. 

## Learning

Learning:  As an open-source project, the greatest level of confusion came due to understanding fair compensation. This has been difficult to determine due to the nature of the project. 

Opportunities to create value are not greater than the ability to implement and properly execute. 

Catalyst Proposals begin with an idea, and even with refinement there are many pivots along the way which you gain from experience. 

## HOW DECISIONS ARE MADE

Upon forming the NFT-DAO, we initiated a Core Team of 4 Leaders, Marketing—Tyler, Governance—Troy, Development—Michael, Business—Rich (the title Business wasn’t used until later but was implied).

All global decisions were finalized by the Core Team with inputs from each area.  Local decisions were made in each area.

## HOW COMPENSATION WORKS

We Will Reward Contributors:

It has always been the plan to reward contributions upon completing the project.  This is documented in numerous chat discussions and reports.  We failed to create one clear contract with each member stating this for their specific contributions.  

## The Project Pivoted:

The community chose over time to morph, pivot and stretch the fund-3 goals and deliverables into the Ticket Sale app. While the Governance token morphed into a more immediate Contribution token and way to measure contributions so we could reward people in a fair manner.

## We Can’t Track Contribution Value:

We also did not assign a proper value on any given piece of work before those assignments got started, therefore we cannot say exactly what the tasks are worth.

We do know that the original fund-3 proposal deliverables list was an estimate with no valid reason for the costs we assigned them.  It was NOT what was finally decided to be delivered and the dollars attached to items therein do not reflect the reality of contributed efforts. For instance, Marketing was about $5K, Governance $19K and Development $23K.  These original estimates do not hold.

Nor did we vet individuals as if we were interviewing them for a job, as it was a voluntary community effort. The work distribution was nowhere close to fund-3 proposal and we cannot fairly reward individuals based on that model. Marketing did as much if not more work than Gov and Dev.  

## A Fair Model Proposed:

Under the circumstances we identified an initial 16 core contributors and would distribute rewards evenly. This has been controversial with some as unfair and has therefore stalled. Other contributors question the selection of the 16.  The Leads made the decision who were core contributors.

## A Vote For Effort or Results:
With recent questions on payment for efforts extended vs. final results, NFT-DAO will put the question to a vote on how to pay all contributors; either based on the time worked on the project or completion of the MVP. 


Because we believed we were on track to have a completed Ticket Sale app the end of May, we felt we would be able to reward everyone who was contributing in a more than generous way.  See agenda items.

## TOWN HALL AGENDA May 25th 
NFTDAO Core team Discord channel (Members: Troy, Tyler, Michael, Rich)

## RK — 05/25/2021
Agenda:

1. Ticket Sale App closure
2. Akkadia Auction update4. 
3. BOXCAR update
4. Round table

RK — 05/25/2021

## Notes:
It appears that it will be next week when we can do the Ticket Sale

Devs need to be finished, then testing, MuKn can review the process flow and make sure all is working as designed

Need Legal licesnses from Artists

Need all code as open source

NFT DAO Company formation doc Operating Agreement

Marketing Plan for getting folks to the Sale

Hold the Sale so we need a target Date

RK — 05/25/2021

Need the Artist list of accepted artists for the Auction with Email so we can send MOU docs for signature.  - Tyler

## REPORT TO CATALYST LEADERSHIP  FUND 3 COHORT

This is the monthly report all funded projects send privately to the Catalyst Leadership Team

Fund_3_-_Cohort_Report_25-5-21.pdf Written by Troy this month.

### A highlight from the report: 

Unfortunately, these team members had not engaged with any other NFT-DAO community  discussions prior to the one week deadline of the "open-source" project MVP, and they were  oblivious to any tokenomics discussions that had been happening. A series of discussions eventuated where the code that had been written would not be released to the community from a private repo  until an agreement had been reached. An offer had been forwarded to the developers with ADA,  native token and equity reward options.

## HIGHLIGHTS OF RECENT EVENTS

At the end of May three developers turned over the Ticket Sales app source code to the NFT-DAO Github repo under open-source Apache License 2.0. 

The code is available to be forked by anyone and can be found here: https://github.com/NFT-DAO/Akkadia  

## Four developers remain.  

Michael Yagi the Dev Lead stepped down from Dev Lead role and remains a contributor.  

## MICHAEL’S DECISION TO STEP DOWN AS LEAD BUT STILL CONTRIBUTE

NFTDAO Core team Discord channel (Members: Troy, Tyler, Michael, Rich)

### YAGI — 06/05/2021

Hey all, I've been giving it a lot of thought, and the role of dev holon lead isn't is a big responsibility that I do not feel I can put in the time to perform at a level I am happy with. In addition, I haven't been able to learn and contribute to the code base in the way that I had hoped. As such, all the permissions have been transferred over and I will be stepping down as the "dev holon lead" and plan on contributing to the opensource repo as an NFT-DAO community member.
RK — 06/05/2021

Hello Michael, I completely understand.  We would love you to continue contributing to the project without having the responsibility of Dev Holon Lead.  Thanks for recognizing the limitations you have personally.  That is the true sign of humility and modesty.  Thank you for all your work.

### Troy — 06/05/2021

Thanks Michael. As an original dev. contributor, your vote will be helpful within the core cohort, if that still works for you?

### YAGI — 06/05/2021

Thank you :). I would love to contribute in anyway I can still. One of the biggest things is I want to focus my time on learning plutus, personal projects, and just time for outside life things again, so I don't plan on attending too many meetings
Good bye NFT-DAO Core chat :wave:


### Larry Beck joined as Tech Lead and will seek a new Dev Lead.

### Tyler Wailes left the NFT-DAO as Marketing Lead, Philip Roberts replaces him.

## TYLER’S DECISION TO STEP DOWN AS LEAD

NFTDAO Core team Discord channel (Members: Troy, Tyler, Michael, Rich)

### tyler.wales — 05/29/2021

Fellas, I have some bad news; this whole thing has become too political.  I have outside family and work obligations that I need to attend to, and will be exiting NFT-DAO.  I will transfer the website and other NFT-DAO related accounts to you over the next several business days.  It was great working with, and getting to know you all.

### RK — 05/29/2021

The nature of working with people is like that.  I am sorry to see you leave.  I wish you the best in your endeavors.

### YAGI — 05/29/2021

Dang. It's been a wild ride, and I'm sad to see you go, but I understand. Thank you for all the long hours and hard work you've put in! I hope to see you around and best of luck

### Artist’s Rares and Annmarie Left the NFT-DAO

Artist’s Rares and Annmarie Left the NFT-DAO and will pursue Trybbles NFTs on a different platform. 
 
# DETAILED UPDATE


## THE EXPERIMENT

The origin of the idea for a Comprehensive NFT Framework Collab is documented in this video: https://youtu.be/tawHSD11ytY It explains that Rich recognized 42 separate proposals might not be funded for the same concept and simply suggested we work together to build one framework.  It makes the point that the idea of a DAO sprang from the community who joined the idea, Rich was not the originator of the idea of a DAO.

Rich wrote the proposal after hearing on Town Hall there was only 5 minutes left to add any proposals to Fund-3.  He quickly added a few place holders, with the intention of participating in the experiment.  He initially asked for $100K as it would require at least that to make this vision happen. He realized from Catalyst community feedback that it was not likely to get funded and there is an unwritten community mental-model to increase your chances of successfully being funded, and it has nothing to do with the real cost of development.  

Rather it is related to the fund size, the competitive landscape and the overall quality of the proposal. It was also clear we’ll need some technical expertise if it was to have a chance of getting funded. To that end we recruited Finley to help and lend his talent to the proposal.  To be clear, Finley is very busy working on his PhD. at UWYO and has not been active in the project.  He agreed to help when smart contracts are available with Plutus and Marlowe.  Thus Finley has had no interaction with the project as yet.



### Learning: There is a model for successful funding of your Catalyst project that could be better documented for the community.

Tyler joined Rich moments before Troy.  Discussions between them is when the idea of a DAO started to take shape.  It seemed like a great idea so we went with it and Tyler and Troy helped massively to finalize the Fund 3 proposal.  Mind you, we didn’t know exactly how we were going execute, we just knew that we would find a way if it got funded.  Thus our initial estimates of what we would deliver are amongst the things that “Differ greatly between iterations”.  As people are assessing our progress, and looking back at the proposal, these specific deliverables don’t account for how the community has reshaped them through iterations.  However, at some point you can’t change the final proposal version, it gets frozen, even if it doesn’t represent what you will eventually pivot to and build.

### Learning: What works to get funding doesn’t necessarily match what is needed to complete the project.

Early on, folks were getting excited about the potential of a DAO, so to level-set and be very clear about our goals, Rich wrote the Genesis document which is posted on our Discord and repeated below.  Bottomline, we are building BOXCAR software as the first priority and allowing a DAO to emerge from the process of working together.

“… while we accomplish our work at hand to deliver the BOXCAR as our first priority, we are growing an NFT DAO from the ground up, learning and training all who join us in the process.”

None of the core proposers believed that on day-one we were magically transformed into a DAO.  It was our aspiration for the long term of what we clearly all understood to be an open source project. 

We were excited to get going and started working on it well before funding, we anticipated it would be rewarding in due time.

### Learning: We should have created clear contracts outlining expectations and deliverables before any work was started.


# GENESIS:

Comprehensive NFT Framework Collab

A Catalyst Fund 3 Proposal

Proposed by: Rich Kopcho

Joined By: Finely McIIwaine, Tyler Wales and Troy Egan

## Link to Catalyst: https://cardano.ideascale.com/a/dtd/334521-48088?show=comments&comment=338606

Producing WyoHackathon the past three years has brought me into close relationships with the Cardano, IOHK and Emurgo community and teams.  From my history of open-sourcing projects, I noticed a level of professionalism behind the Cardano project that I felt compelled to support more fully at a personal level.  

We submitted WyoHackathon’s IOHK challenges Oct. 2020 through the Catalyst program.  Since I was producing the hackathon I didn’t propose anything until Fund 3.  I wanted to support the model by contributing proposals and learning how the processes and community are operating.  I added several items in the F3 Ideas stage and three final proposals.  Since this proposal under the dApp Creation category resonates with other NFT proposers and is drawing contributors in to help, I’d like to provide a deeper understanding of what we envision.

## VISION

We see the need for a comprehensive framework or scaffolding anyone can build an NFT business opportunity upon. We see Cardano as the rails and we are building a BOXCAR to ride on them that anyone can use to carry their unique product or service (business opportunity) to market.  

## CONSTRUCT

The BOXCAR can be likened to Shopify, the basic ecommerce engine anyone can build a storefront upon.  In our case, an NFT business model. Our goal is to build a composable software framework. One that considers all the elements needed for a full range of NFT business types and accounts for explicitly evaluating all the fundamental requirements of NFT use cases. No small task, but we will build in stages.

This means looking closely at the 42 Catalyst proposals who mention NFTs and determining what the common features and functions are.  It also means we research the dozens of NFT marketplaces, tools and techniques that are operating on other blockchains and determine what are common features and functions in the competitive landscape as well.  Gathering all this information is the initial task we will accomplish.  

Added to that information, we can include the unique opportunities Cardano technology allows us to do that other blockchains can’t.  Combining all of this information into robust requirements will allow us to design an architecture for the BOXCAR that everyone will need to  for building NFT businesses on Cardano expeditiously. We’ll have a very good start for a minimum viable product (MVP).

We already understand certain core services or transactions we will need to build, and engineers are already designing user stories, UML flows and wireframes for reviews and sprints to occur in parallel with the research.

## TRACTION

Others are approaching us based on our project description and some have abandoned their proposals and joined us in collaboration.  

Tyler set aside CineDAO and we added him as a co-proposer.  

Troy had a direct proposal in, and he joined as a co-proposer.

Alessandro had a proposal in the Cardano Forum for a CIP-NFT metadata standard

The SoMint marketing team came over to leverage the collaboration

The Artano proposer reached out to collaborate on the tech to avoid duplication

Wilhelm, a functional programmer who worked on banking SW arrived

Sofi another developer came over

Andrew an artist joined

And the list goes on and on, people see the value of working together

## NFT DAO

As we started to work together several great ideas are emerging amongst the core team of founders.  We have a lot of background in social systems, P2P and holonic architectures. It was natural to start thinking about how we are organized.  The Decentralized Autonomous Organizational (DAO) structures, while not perfect, were presenting several opportunities.

###  Catalyst itself is a DAO

Catalyst itself is a DAO.  Our Collab is meant to gather all the NFT proposals together and save community resources by building the common elements they will all need.  Instead of funding every NFT proposal to create the same thing over and over, we felt we could consolidate the efforts to everyone’s benefit.  Modeling holonic nested heterarchies, we are creating a focused NFT DAO within the Catalyst DAO.  Our hope is the community will see the benefit of building this kind of architecture to focus Cardano NFT efforts and gain explicit experience and speed to market at scale.  

Thus, while we accomplish our work at hand to deliver the BOXCAR as our first priority, we are growing an NFT DAO from the ground up, learning and training all who join us in the process.  This is not the first our team has experienced implementing this kind of structure.  I personally trained thousands of individuals over ten years in holonic systems deployments worldwide. Troy is writing his PhD. thesis on a similar P2P topic.  DAOs have their roots in holonics. By modeling these processes, we will in time become a well-oiled DAO focused on NFTs.  We will be learning from Catalyst and hopefully Catalyst will be learning from our experiences as well.

# HOW
First task is be very clear what our goal is—build the BOXCAR.  

A DAO is simply a means of organizing the work (the O in DAO).  It’s an organizational model.  It provides guidance for who does what, when, how and why through well-established communications and a set of rules or functions.  Thus, our very first task was defining the work to be done and assigning owners. 

There is more to it, like governance, participation, fair contribution reward dispersal and other items that will be worked out as we move forward.  The participation is interesting in a DAO because the A is for autonomous.  It is autonomous yet cooperative behavior that defines participants.  The D is for Decentralized, or no centralized system of control.  We will take the journey together and the DAO will emerge from the work we do.  We will build the canon or rules of engagement as we accomplish our core goal of creating the BOXCAR.

Much like IOHK is slowly releasing Cardano so the community can take it over, we will model similar behavior with NFT DAO.  Also, Catalyst itself is modeling similar behavior as a means to engage the community in self-governance. It will not succeed if we simply ‘will’ it into existence without guidance, nurturing, educating participants and maturing it to be the community’s responsibility.  We have a long-term view of the viability this asset can become for the Cardano community and are wholly committed to seeing it to fruition.

Hopefully this gives you a sense what we aim to accomplish. 

Build the BOXCAR, a composable framework for NFT business models

Allow NFT DAO to emerge for our work and guidance

Your participation and feedback are welcome. 

========== END GENESIS DOC ============================== 

## Catalyst is no longer considered a DAO

After writing this, we were made aware that Catalyst is no longer considered a DAO and is now referred to as an Innovation Fund.  We felt modeling how IOHK is building software, then open-sourcing it to the Cardano Foundation, and how the Catalyst experiment is happening, would be our model to follow and hopefully allow us to expedite our learning process for NFT DAO.   

## Wyoming then wrote legislation for DAO structures

Wyoming then wrote legislation for DAO structures, so we created NFT DAO, LLC for a future organization once the laws became enacted.  That organization has no charter or operating agreement, it is simply a registration as of this date and the DAO laws do not go into effect until July 1, 2021.

## Building BOXCAR is the prime objective because without it, the DAO has no real purpose.

Building BOXCAR is the prime objective because without it, the DAO has no real purpose.  We realized a DAO would need a treasury and some way to generate recurring revenues to sustain it.  Thus even in the proposal we mentioned commercializing the efforts.  Rich took on the responsibility to figure out ways we could build long term value so the DAO could eventually operate as an independent entity and not need to rely on grant funding from Catalyst.  Until that time, we believed we would need a few Catalyst funding rounds in our favor to build what we wanted the community to benefit from.

## frittering away the community’s funds

Knowing we couldn’t get where we needed to be with less than half of what we initially thought we needed, we’ve been very conscious of not frittering away the community’s funds we’ve been granted until being very assured we are going to be able to deliver on our intention of an MVP that demonstrates we are on track to create the product the community got excited for.  Thus, we still have the full dollar value of all the funds granted.  (We spent only some arbitrage on a code quality assessment agreed to by a community vote.)

# THINGS MAY BREAK

“The best laid schemes o' Mice an' Men,
Gang aft agley.
An' lea'e us nought but grief an' pain,
For promis'd joy!  - Robert Burns

This has proved true in our case.  We sought a promised joy, a lively environment of working collaboratively together to build a framework for NFTs the whole community could use.  Not focusing on immediate returns, nor expecting grief and pain.  But perhaps that was not true for all who joined, they may have had expectations they didn’t make us aware of, like wanting to be paid immediately.  As some time went on, we started to hear about them, some wanted to obtain governance tokens, some might have wanted to be paid immediately for their contributions.  As this occurred I proposed a Contribution token as Governance tokens were not going to happen any time soon.  Work on it started in the Governance team, but was stalled with questions of fairness of different solution models.

## Learning: Clarify all aspects of expectations, even in a community movement, to avoid misunderstandings. Documenting two-way communication is a necessity.

We did attempt to clarify expectations .  We created an AirTable that contributors signed up on.  It has a check box and a free form dialog box where participants signed up to contribute to the project.  https://airtable.com/shrsber2nfjA6PYb0 

## Ready To Build?

By checking this box you grant NFT DAO rights to use creative and intellectual property you share through Discord and all other NFT-DAO related channels of communication. Build better together.

This was important to make clear because NFT-DAO is an open-source project after all and we didn’t want any misunderstandings.

So you received funding from Catalyst and given the way Catalyst works:
Idea submitted, 
refinement
community participation, 
The actual last step was team formation?
ADD LEARNING POINT HERE


## Because the last time he open-sourced a project in 2007, it was built first then released as open-source.

The first week of April, before we were funded, Rich went down the rabbit hole on how to license and copyright an open-source project to make sure contributors understood the implications, and we understood them.  Because the last time he open-sourced a project in 2007, it was built first then released as open-source.  Managing a community contribution was going to be different. A lot of the information led back over 10 years ago where some efforts were made to codify these processes and agreements, but many controversies and different opinions plague the efforts to define a good model.  


## Learning: This is an opportunity to add clarity for community projects that aspire to be open-source. We could have been more detailed in expectations, limitations and benefits either monetary or in tokens.

We made a point to make sure the Dev lead was clear with contributors that we are building open-source with the same license as Cardano Apache License 2.0.  We also sought to understand their level of commitment as many had their own projects they hoped to get Catalyst funds for and because we considered the option to hire the work out to a professional development shop rather than community volunteers.  We trusted the Leads to take care of communications with their teams.

## Learning: Create contracts with everyone, whether volunteers or contractors, to avoid misunderstandings.

We have come to see in our experiment everyone paints the picture in their mind differently. Dealing with all these various personal visions has been a challenge.  Thus by not creating contracts, we have broke things.  

We’ve tried to be welcoming to all, and be inclusive of everyone’s ideas and contributions as we reformulated specific goals that we can deliver to demonstrate we are building toward the end result of BOXCAR and an emerging DAO that can become it’s steward.  We actually chose stretch goals bigger than those in our fund 3 proposal.

## Learning: Building a community project with willing participants, isn’t the same as hiring a team of qualified professionals.  

No interviews, no references, no work tests occurred as we didn’t feel like we were “hiring” a team.  We were simply pooling our personal resources to build something for the community.  Perhaps this is a cause for misunderstandings as some evidently felt they were joining a paid gig. If that was the case, we wouldn’t accept just anyone who came like you do in a community project.

## What specifically broke?  

By naming our community NFT DAO, many acted as if they thought we ALREADY were a DAO.  That was a huge misstep as it was the farthest from the case.  We were a community that had a long term goal, but many felt everyone needed to weigh in on every decision that was being made.  

In actuality, we organized with a lead over each core function: Marketing—Tyler Wailes, Governance—Troy Egan and Development—Michael Yagi, Core—Rich.  Each lead has had autonomy to experiment and build their holon and teams—which they did, and held team meetings to progress our goals. This was new and experimental and each will attest much learning occurred both personally and organizationally.

## The idea of holons was to align the skills with the work needed in each area in a heterarchical structure (not a hierarchy). 

The idea of holons was to align the skills with the work needed in each area in a heterarchical structure (not a hierarchy).  While it provides a hierarchical decision framework, it has open collaborative communication which was the key attribute we were trying to accomplish.  Cross communication didn’t occur well, we noticed more of a silo approach formed. This Discord excerpt about video content we wanted to produce bears this out:


newmindflow — 04/01/2021
…..The dev side probably needs to be more visible so we suggest you start with Michael @YAGI.

YAGI — 04/01/2021
Would love to. Sorry, for that. In good ol traditional dev fashion we've been hidden away while things are being figured out

## The development team never really participated in any of the community town halls

The development team never really participated in any of the community town halls (although Michael did) and they were not active in our Discord.  Thus a major communication conduit was not forming. This is another thing that broke.

One of the things we recognized in the Genesis doc that was needed is a ‘fair contribution reward dispersal that will be worked out as we move forward’.  

Bottomline, we still do not have a way to measure everyone's contributions and it has caused a lot of debates over fairness.  Who is to say what qualifies as a more important contribution for instance.  This is no simple feat.

## Rich proposed back in mid-March (before any funding) we design a Contribution Token to reward and track participation

Rich proposed back in mid-March (before any funding) we design a Contribution Token to reward and track participation, it was started, lots of discussions, some iterations, never could get consensus on fair measures. It would be something that eventually could be swapped for a Governance Token when that became a reality.

## In mid-May another attempt was made to figure out how to reward the community

In mid-May another attempt was made to figure out how to reward the community and Rich proposed we expand decisions beyond the Core holon of Founders to a larger circle he called the +1's. Core contributors were identified from each holon by the leads.  We got it started and for the core contributors only, this survey was created  https://nft-dao.typeform.com/to/OfeHwxOQ (typeform prepared 5/12/22) Note it asks how contributors prefer to be paid on page two: ADA; A limited-edition NFT; A share of NFT-DAO tokens; or Other.

## However, before we could announce the program, it got preempted

However, before we could announce the program, it got preempted and tangled in a heated Occam.fi debate and didn't get a consensus, instead heated debates over Occam’s approach to us fractured the community.

Before we could announce the +1 program two from Governance team, Stephen and Dan, left over Occam.fi and then shortly after, the Developers were seeking equity positions. There was speculation we could get funded in the millions by Occam and an IDO.  Thus with this kind of money at stake, some now wanted to secure their equity position.

## The Developers were offered cash at the rate of $120K/yr. for their time, working on the project.

The Developers were offered cash at the rate of $120K/yr. for their time, working on the project.  They had at this time said they had two weeks into the code.  All three, Dmitri, Quinn and Taylor said they didn't want the cash because they felt we were going to make so much more money with the software they were writing, they wanted equity instead, but we didn't have a way to give equity at that time. There was also speculation over what an IDO might bring into the treasury, and the dollar signs interfered with the vision.  You can read more about that here in our Github: https://github.com/NFT-DAO/Akkadia#readme or below along with what we actually received as the final code deliverable that were supposed to be complete so we could run the Ticket Sale app.

The devs decided they were leaving at the end of May and agreed to deliver our first product MVP, the Ticket Sale app which had a plan, like many other NFT projects, to mint and sell 10K tickets for the upcoming Akkadia Marketplace.  If it sold out it would bring 550K ADA into the DAO treasury. Seeing this potential, influenced their position we are undervaluing their contributions. 


While they were thinking over if they were staying or going, Rich proposed 1% of the Ticket Sale app proceeds be given to each of 16 core contributors to reward them extremely well when it occurred (like 5500ADA for each core contributor).  Mind you we only had $48,965 in our total proposal, so this was more than $80K to share as rewards. They decided to leave before we had an opportunity to inform them of that proposal.

Once the Developers decided to leave, we didn’t have a way to operate the Ticket Sale and weren’t really sure what we had, especially because we could never get any simple block diagrams of what system was being built and Michael didn’t know because he didn’t have time to write any code or get familiar with it because his day job was taxing.  Thus we voted on hiring MuKn (Rich abstained), who we had already been planning future extensions with, to help us understand what we have. The short story is the code is unusable.  The details are in the report from MuKn below.


There was an understanding from the beginning, that we would build our MVP and after that was successfully finished we would all be rewarded. Since we were funded less than half what we thought we would need, it wasn’t clear if we would be able to finish the MVP if we spent the funds and fell short.  However, the software would end up taking much longer than the original 4-6 week estimate.  That meant delays of rewards as well.

## Technically, there were no agreements to compensate anyone. 

Learning: The only compensation was implied and it was at the end of the project where the proposal says “These funds will be allocated to community members who join with us to make this vision happen and be disbursed with transparency in the spirit of the DAO methodology and input.”   Technically, there were no agreements to compensate anyone.  This is where a lot of confusion is coming from.  There is also no set timeline for completion and it get more complicated quickly when you start considering commercialization and Occam.Fi offering.  We see how confusion and different ideas started to form.  We could have done a better job clarifying this.


Learning: Lack of communication and integration with the rest of the community meant lots of planning and discussions may not have been understood by the Developer team. Therefore misunderstandings precipitated the dev team to feel they were not valued nor would they be adequately compensated for their contributions.  Even though that was not anyone’s intention.  We only had a dev meeting after we were pressing for due dates. We thought we were on a 3-4 week sprint to have the MVP ready in the beginning of May. As weeks slipped by, the issues of equity in the project were brought up. Thus, after efforts too late to salvage their participation, three core developers decided to leave and that is documented on our Github and copied here:


========BEGIN Dev Departure and Assessment ===============================

## The Mutual Knowledge Software Development Assessment
Jun 1- 4, 2021

Hello NFT-DAO Community,

As we’ve had some turnover with development folks, some asked to be informed on the coming and going of individuals within the community.  As this is an open source project, please understand contributors are always free to come and go on their own terms. People may contribute or simply observe.  I’ll add some back-story and jump into the assessment we commissioned on development.

From the beginning building the Comprehensive NFT Framework in a collaborative manner was simply suggesting that 42 Fund-3 proposers of different NFT solutions work together to build one ‘comprehensive’ version as an open source project.  Initially, I wrote the proposal with the simple idea we should work together. I had no thoughts of a DAO structure initially.  That only occurred when Tyler and Troy joined the effort and those suggestions were added into the final Fund-3 proposal.  I believe it is a good long-term solution to form a DAO to steward the Comprehensive NFT Framework we code-named BOXCAR.  However, in the Genesis document, it was made clear our first priority is to deliver the BOXCAR Framework.

We organized with a lead over each core function: Marketing—Tyler Wailes, Governance—Troy Egan and Development—Michael Yagi.  Each lead has had autonomy to experiment and build their holon and teams. Which they did, and held team meetings to progress our goals. This is new and experimental and each will attest much learning occurred both personally and organizationally.

### Software Development

In the early days, we had a few developers contributing ideas.  No one really stepping up to build a product and we were prepared to hire a contractor to develop the solution, until Michael Yagi came into the picture and assumed the Lead over a developer holon.  Michael recruited his team from community folks who were showing some interest, and who also had several Catalyst proposals of their own.  As he was building his team, he had several contributors coming and going at various times.  Things settled with a few core devs who the MuKn report mentions.  Michael and I had several conversations about making sure the devs are committed to building an open source project before they started because we had the option of contracting the work to be done.  We moved forward with the community team and schedule to build.  

Along that timeline we suggested the Gov holon figure a way to provide a Contribution token to recognize everyone’s work. A Governance token would be too far out.

As the fund-3 proposal states, we were seeking ways to commercialize our work to have a long-term sustainable DAO.  A few devs felt they needed some assurances they would be remunerated for their contributions and the code was being held in a private repo only they had access to.  We offered the devs ADA equal to their time at USD120,000/yr. which they refused as they believed the monetary value of their code in equity or Gov tokens would be greater.  However, we were not in a position yet to offer equity or Gov tokens as those aren’t formulated. Ultimately 3 of the devs decided to finish up the MVP Ticket Sale app and depart to work on their own projects. 

Taylor Yoon, Quinn Parkinson and Dmitri Safine completed their work, transferred the code to our open source repo under Apache License 2.0 as agreed and left the project.  Michael Yagi recently chose to no longer lead the dev holon, while remaining a contributor.

This report from MuKn was commissioned to get clear view of what the finished work the devs left would require in order to run the Ticket Sale app.

Please read the MuKn report for the finer details.  The Ticket Sale app is not operable in the final state it was left.  It is MuKn’s opinion we are better off starting over for all the reasons they outline.

We are excited to be working with MuKn and some other professionals moving the project forward using contractors as was the initial plan.  MuKn will provide their expertise and extended dev relationships to meet the requirements.

Warm Regards,
Rich Kopcho

Consultation Cost
$7250 total (4102 ADA)
$5621.76  ÷ 1.83 = 3072ADA
$1811.24 ÷ 1.76 = 1030ADA

=========================================
  
## The Mutual Knowledge Code Audit Report

TL;DR—CONCLUSION 

The failure to build Akkadia to any master plan is a critical flaw in the code. It resulted in significant wasted effort in the form of components that do not connect to each other, crucial functionality never being built, and left no easy way to integrate the code components that were built. For these reasons, we believe the most cost-effective option for NFT DAO is to design and build Akkadia from scratch.   Complete report here:
https://github.com/NFT-DAO/Akkadia/blob/main/NFT-DAO_Akkadia_Ticket_Sales_Audit_Report.pdf


========END Dev Departure and Assessment ===============================

Strangely enough, as mentioned we offered payment to devs at the rate of $120K/yr for their time. At the time, they said they had about two weeks of work into the project which would have been about $4500 each and this MVP was to be completed in another week and a half-ish by end of May.  Please note, up until this point we have no monetary agreements, and no way to measure contributions. It would have meant the first real monetary agreement we would need to concur.  But they said they didn’t want cash.   

## Learning:  Make clear contracts for work, goals, deliverables, timelines, payments, copyright transfers, open source deliverables even if the project is a community one.

Something else broke.  Departing individuals took to public platforms to damage the reputation of the NFT DAO and those committed to its success—where agreements could not be met on performance and compensation. 
 
All our Fund-4/5 proposals were commented on asking: “Will the other contributors ever be paid for their work?”

It has always been our goal to reward contributors. It appears they took issue with us contracting and paying MuKn to do a code review.  MuKn also reported they received an anonymous email warning them not to work with us. 

## The comments allude to where our Fund-3 proposal states: “These funds will be allocated to community members who join with us to make this vision happen and be disbursed with transparency in the spirit of the DAO methodology and input.”

For transparency our NFT DAO wallet address is and has been public: addr1qyd2t7r0na47eq08fjfjh29alqxlmqmrml2ulexw3xdx5d8zaagj3n6myd2jwdsgsa9778hwyer3sa6r9y6dtmuux0nssxherd

My answer to this question is posted on IdeaScale:

1) Not all the funds from Catalyst have been received so they simply aren't available to disburse.

2) The project is not complete. Thus, it isn't possible to fairly disburse funds until we can measure all the contributions, and the governance team is still working on a fair assessment model as well.


3) The community is entrusting us to use their money to deliver the expected Return on Intention. That doesn't mean just any work gets rewarded, it means the work done "to make this vision happen" as pointed out.

Our Contract with the community is an opportunity to contribute to an open-source project as the proposal states:

"Community Member n+1, ….individuals who could potentially pool their expertise into an all-embracing open-source version to benefit the entire community rather than one project. Their expertise is multivariate in development, SPO, marketing, design, business, and more." —The proposal states it is "open-source" 10 times.


However, above and beyond open-source models that typically aren't paid gigs, we allocated and will disburse funds to those "who join with us to make this vision happen".


As far as our Contract with Mutual Knowledge, it is a paid contractor arrangement. And the best thing that has happened in development. 

The funds we have been given are meant for delivering our MVP.

We were also publicly asked about the project completion metrics presented at town hall. Those percentages of completion were rolled up from the Leads based on their estimates of where we were at the time of that report the end of April.  Clearly, a lot of activity has been in process, but nothing fully completed.

We actually expected we would be 100% complete by the end of May with fund-3 deliverables upon the release of Ticket Sale app the devs were turning over; and then closing off some decisions on Governance that had been stalled. Then we would run the Ticket Sale app and demonstrate the MVP.  Everyone would be compensated for 

their efforts beyond their expectations and we would build a healthy treasury we would use to finish off the BOXCAR framework. With that in sight I put in the request for releasing the balance of our funding.


## Another thing that broke.  The Occam.fi story.
 
Apparently Stephen Whitenstall was compiling a report on all the activity of Occam.fi, why was not clear.  We weren’t aware of it, it was his own project but he told Tyler in confidence we later found. Occam.fi entered the Discord server seeking to talk with someone.  Rich took the call and they expressed interest in NFT-DAO joining their hackathon and applying for the Occelerator.  
 
We discussed it in the Core team and everyone was agreeable as the opportunity seemed promising.  We filled out the applications.  When the Leads brought the idea to their holons, the debates ensued mainly in Governance, then spilling over into Marketing.  It was polarizing in the Gov holon as Stephen and Dan were against association with Occam, Troy then stepped back his position on it until he could get better clarity. We weren’t really sure what all the fuss was about, but it caused them both to leave off their work in the Gov holon and exercise their independence.  Mind you they were working on the Contribution Token and the Governance Token models and we were about 91% complete will all the Gov deliverables of fund 3.  The Contribution Token stalling had perturbations impacting our ability to identify and reward contributors. 
 
They wanted to have a AMA with Occam, who agreed.  Before all that could be arranged, the whole Dev equity issue surfaced.  
 
## We believe we broke enough things to qualify us as experts in Catalyst experimentation.
 
# THINGS MAY LACK DOCUMENTATION
 
We actually have a lot of documentation.  We have videos of most of our meetings available and posted on the Discord. Steven Whitenstall did a great job of collecting and organizing a lot of the early work.  Even adding table of contents to our town hall videos that make it easy to find highlights of what we discussed.  We have a robust Github with a lot of detail information.
 
## Learning: We went into the NFT-DAO experiment not understanding clearly how to compensate people for their time and contributions. And there wasn't a defined criteria for success for code writeups.
 
What we do not have is finalized, agreed, voted on guiding documents like Charter, and operating Agreements, and compensation models.  Not that they aren’t started and almost finished.  It’s simply lots of debates about them seem to stall closure.  Early on, it was: Is this a Manifesto or a Charter?  For example.
 
We have a situation of mostly done, like Pareto logic, the last 10% is the hardest.
 
Gov holon has created iterations that we are now going to be reviewing as part of our rebooting NFT-DAO.  We are excited to finalize some of the stalled efforts.
 
The intention we’ve operated under from the beginning is to build for the long term health of the project, and not for immediate financial gains.  We have come to realize this is not necessarily how everyone who came to help saw it.  Perhaps it was naïve to think everyone came from a ‘community first’ ideal and was willing to forego immediate gain (payment for services) for the long term gain (governance tokens or use of the BOXCAR).

If it was to be otherwise, we would have been better off treating everyone as a contractor and required contracts and payment terms upfront, just as we did with MuKn for their assessment. 

We are missing core agreements with our members.  Like how you become a member. Expectations of rewards for contributions and agreements that are legally binding on copyright transfers and contributions to open-source repositories.  Our rebooted structure will focus effort on resolving these missing pieces.
 
## THINGS MAY DIFFER GREATLY BETWEEN ITERATIONS
 
Our fund 3 proposal was an idea, that’s all.  Rich never expected it to gain traction, until it did.  He mentioned this in numerous videos, he simply wanted to help the experiment by contributing ideas into the process.  It’s what entrepreneurs do, they formulate ideas and see which ones gain traction.  But ideas mean nothing without execution.  
 
Which is why, when we started working on the idea, well before it being funded, we morphed from the original proposal, first into building an Art Auction we eventually called Akkadia.  When we were told by the Dev team that was not something we could get done quickly, we scaled back to the Ticket Sale app ahead of the Art Auction. 
 
All these decisions were made collaboratively between Core team and Marketing team and Auction team and discussed openly in our recorded town halls weekly.  We knew we were going beyond the fund 3 simple product requirements, but we also felt it was something we wanted to accomplish to demonstrate our progress to the Cardano community.  
 
Therefore, what we wrote as deliverables for fund 3 isn’t what the NFT-DAO community decided they want to deliver before we even received the funds—and it has changed over time to the roadmap below.  From a technical perspective the initial proposal doesn’t really deliver anything beyond a minting policy, which doesn’t really mean much now as those have been knocked out by others.  It is only useful with something that can demonstrate it in action—thus Ticket Sale app.  The Gov work is useful and we have lived a lot of hard lessons that add to those learnings, and we hope to complete all that work with the new voting system we now operate with.
 
 
## ROADMAP 2Q21

1. Ticket Sales App—which is a simple version of an NFT Mint and Sell 10,000 Akkadia Tickets.  One time use, then on to more functionality.  If this gets proper traction, and sells out the tickets, it provides Development capital to build the Framework we all deserve.
 
2. Akkadia Marketplace—This is a more robust solution and could be the MVP for the final Framework.  In my vision, I see it connecting an auction capability with a 'lazy' Minting solution (lazy mint is basically on-demand minting and delivery), and payments.  This is before smart contracts are alive.
 
3. BOXCAR Framework—This is the longer term Comprehensive NFT Framework and will have smart contracts tech. It will be a composable and interoperable architecture.
 

## THINGS MAY DISORIENT, OVERLOAD AND INSPIRE
 
Disorient 

verb (used with object)

to cause to lose one's way:

to confuse by removing or obscuring something that has guided a person, group, or culture, as customs, moral standards, etc.:
Psychiatry. to cause to lose perception of time, place, or one's personal identity.
 
Disorient is an interesting concept.  It speaks to the perceptions individuals have and those are clearly different between one another.  One man’s ceiling is another man’s floor.  One person sees it one way and another sees the same thing completely differently.
 
We have a current situation of disorientation between some who came to help and left, and others who came to help and stayed.  Some who are still coming to help and others who are coming to see what all the fuss is about.  
 
It’s a matter of perspective and perception.  We’ve been marching to the same drum from when we first wrote the proposal.  We tried to organize with leads over the major areas of Gov, Marketing, and Development to move the project along.
 
The overload of discontent is troubling.  It’s kind of strange in a disorienting way.  Because as we see it, this is a community that seeks to be a DAO, it eschews leadership insomuch as it expects personal autonomy, a Decentralized Autonomous Organization with a vote and say in every decision.  If the community is in disarray, who’s failure is it?  Isn’t it every member of the community who doesn’t participate in bringing solutions?

As far as inspiration goes, our original vision has inspired many to rise and join a noble cause of building an NFT Framework the whole Cardano community can benefit from as an open source project.  We still are stalwart in this proposition and ready to complete the vision.
 
We may have made missteps but we aren’t beyond learning from them.  We are continuing our efforts to build the BOXCAR and the roadmap that leads us there.

# NEXT STEPS
 
We have since rebooted the NFT-DAO with an expanded core group of 8 members grandfathered in from our active participants.  We are voting on several others.  We are also discussing how we accept new members and shall be documenting those Governance models we finalize.
 
## Voted on will be one Tech Lead, a data scientist, a videographer.
 
The Tech Lead will be recruiting a Developer Lead and we are seeking help on the marketing side.
 
We have implemented a voting system and a proposal system designed within the Gov holon and voted upon.  Our votes are open for the public to see.  Rich has opted to abstain during all votes as he has personally experienced public accusations that are unfounded and misrepresentations based on individual’s personal perceptions.
 
We have a development plan that fleshes out the details of the Ticket Sale app and are receiving technical help from MuKn and others that we will ensure are properly contracted to fulfill the goal.  The Cardano Foundation put us in touch with the Agape Pool who are working on some similar tech and we will collaborate together with their tech team as well.
 
If all goes to plan we will be able to deliver the Ticket Sale app in July.  If things go poorly it will take longer, but we will still get it done.

# MOVING FORWARD
 
Longer term, we are in discussions with the University of Wyoming Center for Blockchain and Digital Innovation about joining the NFT-DAO with a complete educational program integrated into their new Blockchain Minor program.  It is under review by UWYO legal.
 
The collaboration presents an opportunity for a hands-on case study of setting up a DAO under the new WYO legal framework for DAOs.  
 
By participating in the design, engineering, legal structure, financial tokenomics, governance, marketing, business development and operational aspects of the NFT-DAO, students will learn firsthand real-world knowhow on many educational fronts.
 
The DAO intends to eventually complete an IDO process and create Governance tokens.  The Center for Blockchain & Digital Innovation and the participating Colleges as well as participating students will have the opportunity to earn Governance tokens as a result of this program.
 
We are also recruiting industry professionals as Advisors who can help us navigate and shape the NFT-DAO beyond the initial hick ups we’ve experienced in our infancy.  We hope to make some of those announcements in our next report.
 
Thank you for your understanding that we have a prime objective to deliver BOXCAR and in the process work through the formation of a fully formed NFT-DAO.  Please be aware, this is an experiment, not everything will go smoothly.  We hope our experiences will inform others of missteps they can avoid on community projects.

Sincerely,
NFT-DAO





